examples/cli/README.md, before:

# OpenThread CLI Example

This example application demonstrates a minimal OpenThread application
that exposes the OpenThread configuration and management interfaces
via a basic command-line interface.  The steps below take you through
the minimal steps required to ping one (emulated) Thread device from
another (emulated) Thread device.

## 1. Build

```bash
$ cd openthread
$ ./bootstrap-configure
$ make
```

## 2. Start Node 1

Spawn the process:

```bash
$ cd openthread/examples/cli
$ ./soc --nodeid=1 -S
```

Start OpenThread:

```bash
start
Done
```

Wait a few seconds and verify that the device has become a Thread Leader:

```bash
state
leader
Done
```

View IPv6 addresses assigned to Node 1's Thread interface:

```bash
ipaddr
fdde:ad00:beef:0:0:ff:fe00:0
fe80:0:0:0:0:ff:fe00:0
fdde:ad00:beef:0:558:f56b:d688:799
fe80:0:0:0:f3d9:2a82:c8d8:fe43
Done
```

## 2. Start Node 2

Spawn the process:

```bash
$ cd openthread/examples/cli
$ ./soc --nodeid=2 -S
```

Start OpenThread:

```bash
start
Done
```

Wait a few seconds and verify that the device has become a Thread Router:

```bash
state
router
Done
```

## 3. Ping Node 1 from Node 2

```bash
ping fdde:ad00:beef:0:558:f56b:d688:799
16 bytes from fdde:ad00:beef:0:558:f56b:d688:799: icmp_seq=1 hlim=64
```

## 4. Ready for More?

See the [OpenThread CLI Reference README.md](../../src/cli/README.md) to explore more.

Commit message:

Add note about using default parameter settings.

examples/cli/README.md, after:

# OpenThread CLI Example

This example application demonstrates a minimal OpenThread application
that exposes the OpenThread configuration and management interfaces
via a basic command-line interface.  The steps below take you through
the minimal steps required to ping one (emulated) Thread device from
another (emulated) Thread device.

## 1. Build

```bash
$ cd openthread
$ ./bootstrap-configure
$ make
```

## 2. Start Node 1

Spawn the process:

```bash
$ cd openthread/examples/cli
$ ./soc --nodeid=1 -S
```

Start OpenThread:

```bash
start
Done
```

Wait a few seconds and verify that the device has become a Thread Leader:

```bash
state
leader
Done
```

View IPv6 addresses assigned to Node 1's Thread interface:

```bash
ipaddr
fdde:ad00:beef:0:0:ff:fe00:0
fe80:0:0:0:0:ff:fe00:0
fdde:ad00:beef:0:558:f56b:d688:799
fe80:0:0:0:f3d9:2a82:c8d8:fe43
Done
```

## 2. Start Node 2

Spawn the process:

```bash
$ cd openthread/examples/cli
$ ./soc --nodeid=2 -S
```

Start OpenThread:

```bash
start
Done
```

Wait a few seconds and verify that the device has become a Thread Router:

```bash
state
router
Done
```

## 3. Ping Node 1 from Node 2

```bash
ping fdde:ad00:beef:0:558:f56b:d688:799
16 bytes from fdde:ad00:beef:0:558:f56b:d688:799: icmp_seq=1 hlim=64
```

## 4. Want More?

You may note that the example above did not include any network parameter configuration, such as the IEEE 802.15.4 PAN ID or the Thread Master Key.  OpenThread currently implements default values for network parameters.  However, you may use the CLI to change network parameters, other configurations, and perform other operations.

See the [OpenThread CLI Reference README.md](../../src/cli/README.md) to explore more.
