third_party/mbedtls/repo/.github/issue_template.md, before:

Note: This is just a template, so feel free to use/remove the unnecessary things

### Description
- Type: Bug | Enhancement\Feature Request
- Priority: Blocker | Major | Minor

---------------------------------------------------------------
## Bug

**OS**  
Mbed OS|linux|windows|

**mbed TLS build:**  
Version: x.x.x or git commit id  
OS version: x.x.x  
Configuration: please attach config.h file where possible  
Compiler and options (if you used a pre-built binary, please indicate how you obtained it):  
Additional environment information:  

**Peer device TLS stack and version**  
OpenSSL|GnuTls|Chrome|NSS(Firefox)|SecureChannel (IIS/Internet Explorer/Edge)|Other  
Version:  

**Expected behavior**   

**Actual behavior**  

**Steps to reproduce**  

----------------------------------------------------------------
## Enhancement\Feature Request

**Justification - why does the library need this feature?**  

**Suggested enhancement**  

-----------------------------------------------------------------

## Question

**Please first check for answers in the [Mbed TLS knowledge Base](https://tls.mbed.org/kb). If you can't find the answer you're looking for then please use the [Mbed TLS mailing list](https://lists.trustedfirmware.org/mailman/listinfo/mbed-tls)**

Commit message:

[mbedtls] move mbedtls to 2.28.0 LTS version (#7539)
- Squashed 'third_party/mbedtls/repo/' content from commit 23e9e0bd2

git-subtree-dir: third_party/mbedtls/repo
git-subtree-split: 23e9e0bd2c7d1b5496773356d5a2c0c56d722d93

- update Makefiles
- update `check-android-build`

third_party/mbedtls/repo/.github/issue_template.md, after:

_Note:_ this is a template, please remove the parts that are not
applicable (these initial notes, and the "Bug" section for a Feature request
and vice-versa).

**Note:** to report a security vulnerability, see
[SECURITY.md](../SECURITY.md). Please do not use github issues for
vulnerabilities.

_Note:_ to get support, see [SUPPORT.md](../SUPPORT.md). Please do not use
github issues for questions.

---------------------------------------------------------------
### Description
- Type: Bug | Enhancement / Feature Request
- Priority: Blocker | Major | Minor

---------------------------------------------------------------
## Bug

**OS**  
Mbed OS|linux|windows|

**mbed TLS build:**  
Version: x.x.x or git commit id  
OS version: x.x.x  
Configuration: please attach config.h file where possible  
Compiler and options (if you used a pre-built binary, please indicate how you obtained it):  
Additional environment information:  

**Peer device TLS stack and version**  
OpenSSL|GnuTls|Chrome|NSS(Firefox)|SecureChannel (IIS/Internet Explorer/Edge)|Other  
Version:  

**Expected behavior**   

**Actual behavior**  

**Steps to reproduce**  

----------------------------------------------------------------
## Enhancement / Feature Request

**Suggested enhancement**  

**Justification - why does the library need this feature?**
