tools/spi-hdlc-adapter/README.md, before:

SPI/HDLC Adaptor
================

`spi-hdlc-adapter` is an adapter tool for using a SPI interface as if
it were an HDLC-lite encoded bidirectional asynchronous serial stream.
It uses the SPI protocol outlined in [Appendix A.2][1] of the Spinel
protocol document.

[1]: https://goo.gl/gt18O4

## Syntax ##

    spi-hdlc-adapter [options] <spi-device-path>

## Options ##

*   `--stdio`: Use `stdin` and `stdout` for HDLC input/output. Useful
    when directly started by the program that will be using it.
*   `--pty`: Create a pseudo terminal for HDLC input/output. The path
    of the newly-created PTY will be written to `stdout`, followed by
    a newline.
*   `--raw`: Do not encode/decode packets using HDLC. Instead, write
    whole, raw frames to the specified input and output FDs. This is
    useful for emulating a serial port, or when datagram-based sockets
    are supplied for `stdin` and `stdout` (when used with `--stdio`).
*   `--mtu=[MTU]`: Specify the MTU. Currently only used in raw mode.
    Default and maximum value is 2043. Must be greater than zero.
*   `--gpio-int[=gpio-path]`: Specify a path to the Linux
    sysfs-exported GPIO directory for the `I̅N̅T̅` pin. If not
    specified, `spi-hdlc-adapter` will fall back to polling, which is
    inefficient.
*   `--gpio-reset[=gpio-path]`: Specify a path to the Linux
    sysfs-exported GPIO directory for the `R̅E̅S̅` pin.
*   `--spi-mode[=mode]`: Specify the SPI mode to use (0-3).
*   `--spi-speed[=hertz]`: Specify the SPI speed in hertz.
*   `--spi-cs-delay[=usec]`: Specify the delay after C̅S̅ assertion,
    in microseconds.
*   `--spi-align-allowance[=n]`: Specify the the maximum number of 0xFF
    bytes to clip from start of MISO frame. This makes this tool usable
    with SPI slaves which have buggy SPI blocks that prepend up to
    three 0xFF bytes to the start of MISO frame. Default value is `0`.
    Maximum value is `3`. *This must be set to `2` for chips in the
    SiLabs EM35x family.*
*   `--verbose`: Increase debug verbosity.
*   `--help`: Print out usage information to `stdout` and exit.

`spi-device-path` is a required argument since it indicates which SPI
device to use. An example path might be `/dev/spidev1.0`.

The GPIO paths are to the top-level directory for that GPIO. They must
be already be exported before `spi-hdlc-adapter` can use them.

## Behavior ##

If an MCU reset is detected by the reset bit being set on a SPI frame,
the special vendor-specific HDLC-lite symbol `0xF8` is emitted. If
`--gpio-reset` is specified, the HDLC client can trigger an MCU reset
by sending the symbols `0x7E 0x13 0x11 0x7E` or by sending `SIGUSR1`.

When started, `spi-hdlc-adapter` will configure the following
properties on the GPIOs:

1.  Set `I̅N̅T̅/direction` to `in`.
2.  Set `I̅N̅T̅/edge` to `falling`.
3.  Set `R̅E̅S̅/direction` to `high`.

When resetting the slave device, `spi-hdlc` performs the following
procedure:

1.  Set `R̅E̅S̅/direction` to `low`.
2.  Sleep for 30ms.
3.  Set `R̅E̅S̅/direction` to `high`.

Commit message:

spi-hdlc-adapter: Reliability and Performance Improvements
This change includes many improvements which reduce latency, increase
throughput, and improve reliability.

The most significant change from this commit is addressing a frame
corruption bug which would occasionally corrupt frames received from
the slave during periods of congestion. This was occurring because
`push_pull_spi()` was allowed to be called when `sSpiTxIsReady` was
set, even if `sSpiRxPayloadSize` was not equal to zero. Under such
circumstances the previously received frame would be corrupted. This
change makes sure that `push_pull_spi()` does not get called until
`sSpiRxPayloadSize` is zero.

`push_pull_spi()` now only performs a single SPI transaction (instead
of two), which eliminates a significant amount of duplicated code. The
call to `usleep()` has been removed entirely, along with the
associated static `sSpiTransactionDelay`.

Statistics are now gathered and reported at exit. You can also induce
`spi-hdlc-adapter` to dump its statistics while it is running by
sending it a `SIGUSR1` signal.

This change also includes miscellaneous smaller changes.

tools/spi-hdlc-adapter/README.md, after:

SPI/HDLC Adaptor
================

`spi-hdlc-adapter` is an adapter tool for using a SPI interface as if
it were an HDLC-lite encoded bidirectional asynchronous serial stream.
It uses the SPI protocol outlined in [Appendix A.2][1] of the Spinel
protocol document.

[1]: https://goo.gl/gt18O4

## Syntax ##

    spi-hdlc-adapter [options] <spi-device-path>

## Options ##

*   `--stdio`: Use `stdin` and `stdout` for HDLC input/output. Useful
    when directly started by the program that will be using it.
*   `--pty`: Create a pseudo terminal for HDLC input/output. The path
    of the newly-created PTY will be written to `stdout`, followed by
    a newline.
*   `--raw`: Do not encode/decode packets using HDLC. Instead, write
    whole, raw frames to the specified input and output FDs. This is
    useful for emulating a serial port, or when datagram-based sockets
    are supplied for `stdin` and `stdout` (when used with `--stdio`).
*   `--mtu=[MTU]`: Specify the MTU. Currently only used in raw mode.
    Default and maximum value is 2043. Must be greater than zero.
*   `--gpio-int[=gpio-path]`: Specify a path to the Linux
    sysfs-exported GPIO directory for the `I̅N̅T̅` pin. If not
    specified, `spi-hdlc-adapter` will fall back to polling, which is
    inefficient.
*   `--gpio-reset[=gpio-path]`: Specify a path to the Linux
    sysfs-exported GPIO directory for the `R̅E̅S̅` pin.
*   `--spi-mode[=mode]`: Specify the SPI mode to use (0-3). Default
    value is `0`.
*   `--spi-speed[=hertz]`: Specify the SPI speed in hertz. Default
    value is `1000000` (1MHz).
*   `--spi-cs-delay[=usec]`: Specify the delay after C̅S̅ assertion,
    in microseconds. Default is 20µs. Note that this may need to be
    set to zero for spi-hdlc-adapter to work with some SPI drivers.
*   `--spi-align-allowance[=n]`: Specify the the maximum number of 0xFF
    bytes to clip from start of MISO frame. This makes this tool usable
    with SPI slaves which have buggy SPI blocks that prepend up to
    three 0xFF bytes to the start of MISO frame. Default value is `0`.
    Maximum value is `3`. *This must be set to at least `2` for chips
    in the SiLabs EM35x family.*
*   `--verbose`: Increase debug verbosity.
*   `--help`: Print out usage information to `stdout` and exit.

`spi-device-path` is a required argument since it indicates which SPI
device to use. An example path might be `/dev/spidev1.0`.

The GPIO paths are to the top-level directory for that GPIO. They must
be already be exported before `spi-hdlc-adapter` can use them.

## Behavior ##

If an MCU reset is detected by the reset bit being set on a SPI frame,
the special vendor-specific HDLC-lite symbol `0xF8` is emitted. If
`--gpio-reset` is specified, the HDLC client can trigger an MCU reset
by sending the symbols `0x7E 0x13 0x11 0x7E` or by sending `SIGUSR1`.

When started, `spi-hdlc-adapter` will configure the following
properties on the GPIOs:

1.  Set `I̅N̅T̅/direction` to `in`.
2.  Set `I̅N̅T̅/edge` to `falling`.
3.  Set `R̅E̅S̅/direction` to `high`.

When resetting the slave device, `spi-hdlc` performs the following
procedure:

1.  Set `R̅E̅S̅/direction` to `low`.
2.  Sleep for 30ms.
3.  Set `R̅E̅S̅/direction` to `high`.

## Statistics ##

Some simple usage statistics are printed out to syslog at exit and
whenever the `SIGUSR1` signal is received. The easiest way to send
that signal to `spi-hdlc-adapter` is like this:

    # killall -sigusr1 spi-hdlc-adapter

At which point you will see something like this in the syslogs:

    spi-hdlc-adapter[5215]: INFO: sSpiFrameCount=45660
    spi-hdlc-adapter[5215]: INFO: sSpiValidFrameCount=45643
    spi-hdlc-adapter[5215]: INFO: sSpiGarbageFrameCount=17
    spi-hdlc-adapter[5215]: INFO: sSpiDuplexFrameCount=20931
